(Q.1) What is Microservice?

A microservice is a small, independent piece of software that focuses on doing one thing well within a larger application. It's like breaking down a big task into smaller, manageable tasks, where each task is handled by its own specialized team.

Example: In an e-commerce application, instead of having one monolithic service handling everything from user authentication to order processing, you might have separate microservices for user authentication, product catalog, shopping cart management, order processing, and payment processing. Each microservice handles its specific task efficiently and communicates with others as needed, resulting in a more modular and scalable architecture.

(Q.2) What is Monolith architecture?

A monolithic architecture is a traditional approach to building software where all components of an application are tightly integrated and deployed as a single unit. In simple terms, it's like having one big block of code that handles all aspects of an application, including user interface, business logic, and data access.

Example: Consider a blogging platform where all features, such as creating posts, managing user accounts, handling comments, and serving content, are contained within a single codebase and deployed together as a single application. In this setup, any changes or updates to one part of the application may require rebuilding and redeploying the entire monolith, which can lead to slower development cycles and increased complexity.

(Q.3) What is the difference between `Monolith and Microservice?
Monolith:

Definition: A monolithic architecture is a traditional approach where all components of an application are tightly integrated and deployed as a single unit.
Key Points:
All features are contained within one codebase.
Changes or updates to one part often require rebuilding and redeploying the entire application.
Scaling involves scaling the entire application, which may lead to resource inefficiency.
Example: An e-commerce website where all functionalities like user management, product catalog, order processing, and payment handling are handled within a single application.

Microservice:
Definition: A microservices architecture structures an application as a collection of loosely coupled, independently deployable services.
Key Points:
Services are small, independent units focused on specific tasks.
Each service can be developed, deployed, and scaled independently.
Communication between services is typically through lightweight protocols like HTTP/REST or messaging queues.
Example: An online streaming platform where separate microservices handle user authentication, content catalog, user recommendations, payment processing, and content delivery. Each service can be developed, deployed, and scaled independently, allowing for agility and scalability.

Comparison:
Monolith vs. Microservice: Monoliths are a single, tightly integrated unit, while microservices are a collection of loosely coupled, independent units.
Example Data: In a monolithic architecture, a change to the user interface might necessitate rebuilding and deploying the entire application, whereas in a microservices architecture, updating a recommendation service would only require redeploying that specific service, leaving the rest of the application unaffected.

(Q.4) Why do we need a useEffect Hook?

We need the useEffect hook in React to perform side effects in functional components, such as data fetching, DOM manipulation, or subscribing to external events. It allows us to manage asynchronous operations, handle component lifecycle events, and keep our components in sync with external data sources.

Example: In a weather application, the useEffect hook can be used to fetch weather data from an API when the component mounts, ensuring that the component displays the latest weather information to the user. Additionally, useEffect can subscribe to location changes, updating the weather data accordingly whenever the user's location changes. This ensures that the weather information remains accurate and up-to-date without manual intervention.

(Q.5) What is Optional Chaining?
Optional chaining is a feature in programming languages that allows you to access properties or methods of an object without needing to check if each level of nesting exists. It provides a concise and safe way to handle potentially undefined or null values, preventing errors from occurring when trying to access properties or methods of nested objects.

Example:
Consider an object representing a user profile in a web application. If you want to access the user's address city, but the user object or the address object might be null or undefined, you can use optional chaining to safely access the city property without causing an error:

javascript code
const user = {
  name: 'John',
  // address is undefined
};

const city = user.address?.city;
console.log(city); // Output: undefined (no error is thrown)
In this example, if user.address is undefined, city will be assigned the value of undefined, and no error will be thrown. Optional chaining allows you to handle potential null or undefined values gracefully without extensive null checks.

(Q.6) What is Shimmer UI?
Shimmer UI is a technique used to indicate that content is loading in an application by displaying a subtle animation or placeholder. It creates the illusion of content being loaded gradually, providing users with visual feedback that the application is working on fetching data.

Example:
Imagine you're scrolling through a social media feed, and as you reach the bottom, new posts are being loaded. Instead of displaying a blank space while the new posts are being fetched, the application displays a shimmer animation, which consists of moving gradients or patterns resembling content. This gives users a visual cue that more content is loading, reducing perceived latency and improving the overall user experience.


(Q.7) What is the difference between JS expression and JS statement?

In JavaScript:

Expression: Produces a value. It can be a single value, a combination of values, or a function that returns a value.

Example: 2 + 3 evaluates to 5, or myFunction() where myFunction returns a value.
Statement: Performs an action. It doesn't necessarily produce a value.

Example: if statement, for loop, variable declaration (let x = 5;), or function declaration (function myFunction() { }).
In a real-world scenario, consider a simple JavaScript program that calculates the total price of items in a shopping cart:

javascript code
// Statements
let item1Price = 10;
let item2Price = 20;
let totalPrice;

// Expression
totalPrice = item1Price + item2Price;
console.log(totalPrice); // Output: 30

In this example, let item1Price = 10; and let item2Price = 20; are statements because they perform actions (variable assignment), while item1Price + item2Price is an expression because it produces a value (the sum of item prices).

(Q.8) What is CORS?
CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing) is a security feature implemented by web browsers to prevent malicious websites from making unauthorized requests to another domain. It allows web servers to specify which origins are allowed to access their resources, thereby protecting sensitive data and preventing cross-site scripting attacks.

Example: Suppose you have a web application hosted on example.com that makes an AJAX request to an API hosted on api.example.com. Without CORS, the browser would block the request due to the same-origin policy, which restricts requests from different origins. However, by enabling CORS on the API server and specifying example.com as an allowed origin, the browser will permit the AJAX request from example.com to api.example.com, allowing the web application to access the API's resources securely.

(Q.9) What is Conditional Rendering? explain with a code example

Conditional rendering is a technique used in web development to dynamically display or hide elements in a user interface based on certain conditions. It allows developers to control what content is shown to the user depending on various factors such as user input, application state, or external data.

Example:
In a simple web application, you might want to display a "Login" button if the user is not logged in, and a "Logout" button if the user is logged in. This can be achieved using conditional rendering:

jsx code
function App() {
  const isLoggedIn = false; // Assume user is not logged in

  return (
    <div>
      {isLoggedIn ? (
        <button onClick={() => console.log("Logging out...")}>Logout</button>
      ) : (
        <button onClick={() => console.log("Logging in...")}>Login</button>
      )}
    </div>
  );
}
In this example, the isLoggedIn variable determines which button is displayed to the user. If isLoggedIn is true, the "Logout" button is rendered; otherwise, the "Login" button is rendered. This allows for dynamic content based on the application's state.

(Q.10) What is async and await?

async and await are keywords in JavaScript used to work with asynchronous code in a more synchronous and readable manner.

async: The async keyword is used before a function declaration to mark it as asynchronous. It allows the function to return a promise implicitly and enables the use of await within the function body.

await: The await keyword is used within an async function to pause the execution of the function until a promise is resolved. It makes asynchronous code look and behave more like synchronous code.

Example:
Suppose you have a function that fetches data from an API asynchronously. Using async and await, you can make the code more readable and easier to understand:

javascript code
async function fetchData() {
  try {
    const response = await fetch('https://api.example.com/data');
    const data = await response.json();
    console.log(data);
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('Error fetching data:', error);
  }
}
fetchData();

In this example, fetchData is an asynchronous function marked with the async keyword. Within the function, await is used to pause execution until the promise returned by fetch is resolved. This makes the code look synchronous while still being asynchronous under the hood.

(Q.11) What is the use of const json = await data.json(); in getRestaurants()?
The line const json = await data.json(); in the function getRestaurants() is used to parse the response data from an API into JSON format.

Explanation:

data.json() returns a promise that resolves to the JSON representation of the response body.
await is used to wait for this promise to resolve, making the code wait until the JSON data is available.
Once resolved, the JSON data is assigned to the variable json.
Example:

javascript code
async function getRestaurants() {
  try {
    const response = await fetch('https://api.example.com/restaurants');
    const data = await response.json(); // Parse response body to JSON
    console.log(data); // Output: JSON data representing restaurants
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('Error fetching restaurants:', error);
  }
}
getRestaurants();

In this example, getRestaurants() fetches data from an API endpoint (https://api.example.com/restaurants) and then parses the response body into JSON format using await data.json(). This allows you to work with the data in JSON format, making it easier to manipulate and display within your application.





